looks ugly. So let's erase this ugly mess and let's try to visualize it a bit
more nicer. So for that we're going to use a library called matplotlib. So
matplotlib allows us to create figures so we can do things like plt imshow of
the count array. So this is the 28 by 28 array and this is the structure but
even this I would say is still pretty ugly. So we're going to try to create a
much nicer visualization of it and I wrote a bunch of code for that. The first
thing we're going to need is we're going to need to invert this array here,
this dictionary. So S to I is a mapping from S to I and in I to S we're going
to reverse this dictionary. So iterate over all the items and just reverse that
array. So I to S maps inversely from 0 to A, 1 to B etc. So we'll need that and
then here's the code that I came up with to try to make this a little bit
nicer. We create a figure, we plot n and then we visualize a bunch of things
later. Let me just run it so you get a sense of what this is. Okay so you see
here that we have the array spaced out and every one of these is basically like
B follows G zero times B follows H 41 times so A follows J 175 times and so
what you can see that I'm doing here is first I show that entire array and then
I iterate over all the individual little cells here and I create a character
string here which is the inverse mapping I2S of the integer I and the integer J
so that's those are the bigrams in a character representation and then I plot
just the bigram text and then I plot the number of times that this bigram
occurs. Now the reason that there's a dot item here is because when you index
into these arrays, these are torch tensors, you see that we still get a tensor
back. So the type of this thing, you'd think it would be just an integer 149
but it's actually a torch dot tensor and so if you do dot item then it will pop
out that in individual integer so it will just be 149 so that's what's
happening there and these are just some options to make it look nice so what is
the structure of this array we have all these counts and we see that some of
them occur often as some of them do not occur often
